Phase 1 Report (Team 40):

Landing Page:
Run the web app by clicking the index.html page in chrome browser.
This will launch the main landing page, here you can scroll through and get a feel about the product and click the elements in nav bar to redirect to different elements of the page like team and about section. You can now choose to login by clicking the login button from the top right of the page. 


Login Page:

You would have two options to login as a regular user or as an admin.

If you chose to login as a regular user, enter either of following credentials:
Username: user, Password: user
Username: user2, Password: user2

If you chose to login as admin, enter the following credentials:

Username: admin, Password: admin.

If you wish to create another user, click the register button on top right.


Register Page:

Here you are asked to enter your firstname, lastname, username, Email, Phone Number, Password and confirm password. You are required to match your password and reenter password field otherwise there will be a pop up window and you won’t be able to register.

You also can’t register by setting your username to admin - this will pop up a window suggesting the same.
At any point you can go back to the home page by clicking UberZ on top left corner.


Logged in as regular user:

You will be greeted by the main ride finding/ creating page. The nav bar consists of 'My Profile', along with logout button. On clicking my profile page, you will be redirected to your profile page which will show you a default profile picture, first name, last name, email, phone number and password. Apart from your username and profile picture, you should be able to edit all other fields. Username field is locked by default and is used to distinguish a particular user. We plan to add the profile picture upload functionality in the next phase to allow data exchange from your local computer on to the profile page. In the next phase, all the field you edit will be stored and updated in database so when you refresh the page you will have the updated values.

You can click on logout button on top right corner of nav bar which will redirect you to main page.

On the top left corner you can start searching for a ride 

Search for a ride page:

You will be presented with a page displaying an interactive map and input fields for users to specify starting and ending points. Once a user adds their origin and destination, they can click the "Find distance and time" page to view time required to reach their destination. It also displays the distance from origin to destination. Currently, the values of distance and time displayed to the user once they enter the origin and destinations are hardcoded. This page also ensures that the user has not left any input fields by giving an error message to the user and specifying the empty fields. This enhances the user interface. In the next phase, map API will be used to display an interactive map. The API will be used to get information on the distance and time as well. Each input field will also have an autofill feature. This feature will display location options to choose from as user enters their starting and ending point.

Create Ride Page:

This allows users to specify the time when they will leave, their origin and destination and the type of uber they are ordering. It creates a ride from the inputs and adds it to rides array. Then it displays a modal which contains information on the ride created. It allows the user to navigate to View Rides page after they have created a ride. The page also ensures that user has not left any field blank as an error message appears if they do. It makes sure that the user does not enter a date that is before current date and displays current date. It also displays an image of a map which will be later replaced by an actual map for navigation in the next phase. While entering ride information, the user can always navigate back to the Search for a ride page to figure out which arrival and destination they prefer. Functionalities such as adding ride data to the database and api for google map navigation will be added in the next phase.

View Rides Page:
On the top of the page, the user's chosen origin and destination are shown, along with a button toggle for selecting the number of passengers they will be joining a ride with. Further down on this page you will find a list of all the rides that are currently available, always sorted by ascending total distance. We define total distance as the distance between the ride's origin and user's specified origin + distance between the ride's destination and the user's specified destination. Basically, the rides whose origin and destination are closer to the user's origin and destination are listed earlier. Each ride is shown in a post, which displays ride information such as available seats, name and contact number of the ride creator etc. The post also shows the meeting point (origin) of the ride, which is where all joined riders are to meet up when the timer expires. By default, all rides will show in the "Available Rides" section and the "Currently Joined" will be empty. Any rides that the user has created (call it an "own ride") will show in the "Your Rides" section. Note, we have put an example of an "own ride" by default on the page just for demonstration purposes. Each ride has a timer, which after expiry will cause the post to disappear from the page. If the user joins a ride, the ride will show up in the "Currently Joined" section. The user may NOT change the number of passengers while they are joined in a ride. This is to prevent joining and leaving with different amounts of passengers. The user may leave a ride by clicking the "Leave" button, after which the ride will return to the "Rides Available" section. A user cannot join or leave their own ride, but can remove it by clicking the "Remove" button.

Logged in as admin user:

You will be by the users profile page where you can view all the details about the users registered on the system, including their username, first name, last name. As an admin, you can modify the username of a user and be able to delete users as well.

On the top left of the nav bar, you can click the "View Rides" button to view the list of created rides. On this page, you can click the cancel button to remove a user's ride from the list. 

Once you are in the view rides page, on the top left of the nav bar, you can click the "View Users" button to view the list of all users. On this page, you can click the cancel user button to delete the user. 




